Milestone 1 – Team Information/Team Communication/Work Plan (Week 1)
o The first step is to determine if you are doing the project independently or as a team.
Teams can have 3 students max. Based on this decision, follow the below instructions
for submission.
o Team Project Requirements:
 Submit team member names
 Determine your method of communication as a team (Slack, Teams, Discord,
Skype, etc.)
 Provide high level plan for tackling the project as a team
o Independent Project Requirements:
 If you are working independently, craft a rough project plan for how you will
accomplish each milestone and task, what your project work schedule will be
like, etc.
 If you are working independently, you need to create a thread in the
discussion board “Course Project Deliverables” – you will use this thread
the remainder of the course for other independent team members to be able
to review your work. Failure to do this, will result in your inability to
complete a peer review.
o Submit the requirements to the assignment link provided. This information will be used
for the instructor to create a group within Blackboard that will have a location for
assignment submission and a group discussion board. If you are working independently,
you will still have a group created for you, but will only be visible by you and the
instructor.
o This is the only milestone that won’t be submitted via your group.
o Start discussing your topic and dataset as a team, as this will be due the following week.

Milestone 2 – Data Selection and Project Proposal (Week 2)
o Data selection and your project proposal are due this week. While you might determine
to add additional data sources as the project progresses, you should have a good idea of
your initial dataset by this milestone.
o The project proposal should include the following information:
 Introduction
 Background
 Problem Statement
 Scope
 Document Overview
 Preliminary Requirement (summary of what is required to proceed, data required,
business processes that need to be in place, assumptions, etc.)
 Technical Approach
 Data sources or plan for data
 Analysis
 Requirement Development (What would you need technically in place
for this to work, do you have to build anything, initial work that would
need to be done)
 Model Deployment
 Testing and Evaluation
 Expected Results
 Execution and Management of Project
 Project Plan
 Project Risk
o The proposal should be 5-7 pages long, double spaced. Margins should be 1-inch top,
bottom, left, and right. Use any font that is suitable for a professional paper and use 12-
point type. Remember it is just the initial proposal – your findings might take you in a
different direction for the final submission.
o This should be submitted through the group assignment submission regardless if it is an
independent project or multi-person group.
o If you are working independently, you will also need to reply to your thread in the
discussion board “Course Project Deliverables” with this assignment– you will use
this thread the remainder of the course for other independent team members to be
able to review your work.



Milestone 3 – Preliminary Analysis (Week 5)
o The Preliminary analysis should follow the following format as this is the format of your
final paper.
 Abstract
 Intro/background of the problem
 Methods
 Results
 Discussion/conclusion
 Acknowledgments
 References
o You should be able to complete some of the intro/background of the problem, methods,
preliminary results, and discussion. I understand that some of this information can change
over the next few weeks, but it is better to start your Master Doc now instead of waiting
until the end of the semester.
o This should be submitted through the group assignment submission regardless if it is an
independent project or multi-person group.
o If you are working independently, you will also need to reply to your thread in the
discussion board “Course Project Deliverables” with this assignment– you will use
this thread the remainder of the course for other independent team members to be
able to review your work.

Milestone 4 – Project Presentation & Status (Week 9)
o In this milestone, each team should present the intermediate results of their project. A
deck of slides that describes the steps of the analysis up to this point should be prepared.
The goal of this presentation is to describe the contributions toward the completion of the
project, and to discuss the issues, challenges encountered during the work, and future
plans to complete the analysis. When building this presentation, assume an executive
level audience (8-15 slides max) and that they have minimal knowledge of the topic.
o This should be submitted through the group assignment submission regardless if it is an
independent project or multi-person group.
o If you are working independently, you will also need to reply to your thread in the
discussion board “Course Project Deliverables” with this assignment– you will use
this thread the remainder of the course for other independent team members to be
able to review your work.




Milestone 5 – Final project paper and presentation (Week 12)
o Course Presentation:
 Each team should prepare a presentation to describe the results of the analytics
project and use of the concepts and methods taught throughout the course.
Presentations should be 15-20 minutes in length. The presentation will be
recorded and submitted through Blackboard. The presentation is due by Thursday
at midnight. Audio, not video is required.
o Course Final Paper:
 The final paper should be 8-10 pages double spaced in length not including
figures and tables. The executive summary should be no longer than one
typewritten page, describing the conclusions of your data analysis to a nontechnical
audience. It should be intelligible to a person who does not know data
mining or machine learning techniques. Suppose you are talking to your boss or
to a friend who is not familiar with statistical terminology and data science
methods. This can be seen as the executive summary/introduction of your report.
 The technical report should follow. The technical report should include an
intro/background of the problem, methods, results, discussion/conclusion and
acknowledgments, references, in that order. Clearly state the problem you have
chosen to investigate. List the resources you used to come up with the project and
reference all sources you used to complete the project. This section is intended
for a technical audience and must be written in a clear organized fashion.
o Margins should be 1-inch top, bottom, left, and right. Use any font that is suitable for a
professional paper and use 12-point type. The final paper is due by Saturday at midnight.
o If you are working independently, you will also need to reply to your thread in the
discussion board “Course Project Deliverables” with this assignment– you will use
this thread the remainder of the course for other independent team members to be
able to review your work.
